# Davidson.park
## Project in Action
https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/61435118/168310452-91a129af-8c2c-4f64-a1c1-b592d3a54fd7.mp4
## The Assignment
To create something useful and useless at the same time.
## Project Description
For my final project, I used a raspberry pi and a webcam set up in my friend’s dorm room to determine parking availability on Davidson’s campus. For the coding portion of my project, I used Python’s OpenCV to create rectangles over each possible parking place. These rectangles could be drawn onto any image by left clicking and could be removed by right clicking. I used Python’s pickle library to then save the positions of these rectangles to be overlapped onto the webcam feed. Using OpenCV I then performed a series of pixel color conversions and OpenCV’s image thresholding capabilities inside each rectangle to detect when something appears inside any of the predefined rectangles. To represent if a parking spot is available I created an array with values of 1 or 0 which would be stored in a JSON file and updated each time something moved in or out of the predefined rectangles. To display this information I created a mobile app using React Native that used the outputted JSON file to color rectangles that represented each parking place of the parking lot the webcam was looking over. To fetch the JSON file I had to fetch the file over an apache server that I set up on my pi.
## Usefulness
I got the idea for this project based on a lot of complaining I had heard from my friends about how horrible Davidson Parking is. My project alleviates the frustration of having to drive to a parking lot to see if there is a space available. While my pi is up and running the mobile app built along with it accurately displays if a parking spot is available. Based on the way I set up this project it is very easy to move my webcam above a different parking lot and have it work as it does for the current lot. This means it would not be difficult to replicate this project on a larger scale. This project if replicated on a much bigger scale could save students a lot of time. Also, because there is a mobile app developed for the project students have access to the parking lot information at their fingertips.
## Uselessness
While my project does work properly there are still some things that make it useless. The first useless part about this project is I set it up looking over a parking lot that students aren’t allowed to park in. The next issue with the project is that depending on where the sun is the object detection code may not work exactly as expected. I found when it was dark out that the code did not work at all, but also during the day if there was a shadow inside of one of the predefined rectangles there were issues with accurately detecting a car in that space. Another problem is that the object detection part of my project works for all kinds of objects, not just cars. This means if someone were to check the app when someone was standing in one of the parking places they would see it as a taken parking place when in reality it would be available in a short amount of time. Also in my project’s current state, the only way to access the mobile portion of the app is through my laptop. 
## Current Bugs and Things to Improve
While the project does work properly I have not tested the image thresholding thoroughly enough to work consistently at all times during the day. In the mobile app’s current state the UI is very low quality and has room for improvement in both usability and appearance. I also was not able to figure out a way to fetch the JSON file in real-time from my raspberry pi other than running a local python file that used a while loop to consistently fetch it. This project still has no nighttime capabilities.
